>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: And
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
As you know, I spent a lot
of time in Saint Louis.
And Saint Louis was where
the original exorcism
of that little boy took
place many years ago.
It was probably one of the
most documented cases ever
about exorcisms.
Our guest today on "Beyond
Belief," Deborah King-- shaman,
priestess, well-known "New
York Times" bestselling author.
She deals with dark forces.
I have no idea why.
Why would you do this?
>>DEBORAH KING: It wasn't
intentional, George, at all.
It was because I was
seeking the light
and working with a lot
of priests and shamans
who are producers of light, but
who also work with the dark.
And I found out you
have to work with both.
>>NOORY: What is the dark
side anyway, Deborah?
What do you think that is?
>>KING: Well, it's really
our own inner darkness.
I know we much prefer
to project it out
onto other people, other
nations, other continents.
But in fact, it starts within
each and every one of us.
>>NOORY: It's us?
>>KING: It is.
It's our own feelings.
We start when we're little
and some parent or caregiver
tells us that we won't be
loved if we're like that.
So we pretend that those
feelings aren't real.
We push them down somewhere.
By the time we're a
teenager, we don't even
know we have those socially
unacceptable feelings.
Maybe we're jealous
or we're greedy.
You know, all
feelings kids have.
So that's our darkness.
And that's the world's darkness.
Believe it or not,
it's that simple.
>>NOORY: Can you sense
darkness from normal people
if you're just talking to them
in a day to day environment?
>>KING: I can, and I've
always been able to.
I remember when I
was a young lawyer,
my business partners
would say to me, how can
you sense that
about that client?
And I'd say, I don't know.
So in fact, we all have
these capabilities.
Each and every one of
us have in our body,
it's this amazing truth kit.
We can sense everything
about other people
and we've just
sort of turned off.
But I help people learn how
to turn those senses back on.
They're referred
to as paranormal,
but they're not really.
They're actually human.
It's just part of being human.
We can sense.
>>NOORY: Why do some
people get possessed?
Why are some people evil
and some other people simply
aren't?
>>KING: I'm not sure that
there is a definitive answer.
My feeling is that, again, we
don't address our own darkness.
We split off from it.
We disown it.
That sets us up for dark
forces that are outside of us,
And so some people
are just open to it,
And the next thing you
know, they've been zapped.
>>NOORY: Yeah, they are.
Now, I don't feel as if there
are any dark forces around me,
but might there be?
>>KING: Well, George,
you feel very light,
so I wouldn't be concerned.
But I think all of us need
to stay on it every day.
The things that keep us
light are simple things
like staying positive, having
more happy thoughts than not.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>KING: Clean air, good food,
a little bit of exercise,
sunshine-- those are the
things that actually keep us
in the light.
>>NOORY: Because you
can let your guard down
no matter how intentioned
you are, right?
>>KING: That's right.
One of the things that really
sets us up for darkness is,
oddly enough, is not
getting enough sleep.
I know it sounds
simple, but it's true.
>>NOORY: Well, you know,
that is interesting to me.
I know with myself, just because
of the nature of my late time
radio show.
And then I'm up
early, getting things
ready for the next program.
I probably get about
six hours a day.
Some people might say
that's not enough.
But, you know, I don't feel
tired and I keep going.
But, I mean, will it catch
up with me eventually?
>>KING: It might.
And you might pick up
the President Kennedy
trick of a power nap.
Just a little--
>>NOORY: I love power naps.
>>KING: Oh, 5 or 10 minutes.
>>NOORY: That's right.
10, 15 minutes, you're done.
>>KING: Doesn't have to be long.
Right.
Yeah, no.
You look and feel great.
>>NOORY: As a matter
of fact, the long ones,
you wake up more tired,
I think sometimes.
>>KING: And then it throws you
off for your nighttime sleep.
>>NOORY: Deborah, I want to talk
with you about several facets
of the other side--
the evil forces,
the demonic forces, but
also near-death experiences
and life after death.
You went through an episode
where you battled cancer.
You beat it.
You were not at death's
door by any means,
but there are a lot of people
who go to the other side
and come back.
What do you know, and what do
you feel, about the other side?
What is it?
>>KING: Well, I actually
had a near-death experience.
I didn't know that's what
it was called at the time.
But within a few years,
I learned about it.
I was on my first
date, actually,
with the man I later married.
And he was a crazy Frenchman.
I didn't understand
a thing he said.
>>NOORY: His broken
English then?
Or what?
>>KING: Right.
And not long here in the US.
And he was a mountain climber.
And he wanted to
show me mountain
climbing in the
middle of winter.
>>NOORY: I bet he did.
>>KING: Crazy driver.
We went up into the snows
and we started hiking
up a river, this raging
torrent of a river.
I forgot to tell him that
I didn't know anything
about sports.
I was a bookworm.
The only thing I knew
how to do was swim.
And I kept looking at this
river and thinking, wow,
I'd hate to fall on that thing.
You'd be a goner.
>>NOORY: And it was cold, right.
>>KING: It was February.
And there's snow on
the ground and I'm
hurrying, trying
to stay with him.
And he crossed the river on
a piece of solid granite.
The river went
underneath the granite
for quite some distance.
And I ran across, trying
to keep him in sight.
And I slipped and I
fell through a pothole.
>>NOORY: Just like ice.
>>KING: A little
pothole about this big.
Before we left the
car, he'd outfitted me
in-- I had heavy
boots and a coat.
And I had a rope tied around
me, a big, heavy rope.
I was pulled underneath into
the current of this river.
I knew.
>>NOORY: Did you under water?
>>KING: I'm trapped under there.
And the river is pulling
me along under the granite.
>>NOORY: Oh my god.
>>KING: And there were tree
stumps and big boulders.
And it's about 45
degrees, water.
And I started.
>>NOORY: You're
toast in minutes.
>>KING: Yeah.
And at some point,
I started to become
very peaceful and very warm.
>>NOORY: The hypothermia
was setting in.
>>KING: Yeah.
And I saw this bright light
that I was going toward.
And I heard a voice
sort of give me
a life review, a very
quick life review.
And then I heard a
voice say, not yet.
And I popped up in a pool.
And some mountain climbers
on the side of the river
threw me a rope and I got out.
>>NOORY: Oh my gosh.
Now, where was the husband?
Or the boyfriend at the time?
>>KING: Hey, he's
way upriver, trying
to figure out where his date is.
>>NOORY: They had no
idea where you were.
>>KING: No.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>KING: So that was my
near-death experience.
And I don't urge people
to run out and have one.
It's one way to get
spiritual enlightenment,
spiritual evolution
very quickly.
It's become far better
known these days.
That's in large part thanks
to the amazing techniques
they have now for resuscitation.
So a lot of people
are having them.
>>NOORY: You could have frozen
to death out there, then.
>>KING: Yeah.
Lots of people.
And there's a prominent
science writer
right now who says
it's misnamed.
It shouldn't be near death.
It should be after death.
Because in fact--
>>NOORY: Because
you have passed on.
>>KING: --you have to died.
And there's some classic signs.
I had a few of them.
That sense of peace.
The tunnel effect or
stairway is very common.
>>NOORY: Did you see the light?
>>KING: I saw the light.
Lots of people,
they'll hear a voice.
And so there's some
common denominators
to these experiences.
>>NOORY: When it was all done,
weeks later, months later,
did you change at all?
Did you get more intuitive?
Did anything kick in?
>>KING: Something happened
to me immediately.
I noticed just within
the first few hours
that I liked myself better,
that I felt more loved.
It was the oddest thing.
It happened out of the blue.
And I now, having read over
the years all the literature
on this-- it's a
really common feeling.
So one of the higher
spiritual realities
is that we are
unconditionally loved.
It's just hard as
heck to feel it here.
It's hard to feel the love.
>>NOORY: It sure is.
>>KING: You know?
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Deborah, you became
a "New York Times" bestselling
author as you began to
document these stories
and these episodes
that were out there.
Is there a common
denominator here about people
who are trying to battle
demonic forces and evil?
Are they in some
similar environment?
>>KING: Compared to a
near-death experience?
>>NOORY: Or compared to
people who aren't, I guess.
>>KING: They're kind
of the opposite.
Yeah, they're kind
They're pulled down.
They're coming away
from the light.
In fact, it's interesting
with near-death experiences.
20% of them are dark.
They're very dark.
And no one knows why.
They've been studied
and it has nothing
to do with their
religious beliefs
or whether they were
a suicide attempt.
They seem to be random.
I think it's far more connected
to where they are spiritually.
Are they dealing with their
dislike of themselves?
That's actually
one of the biggest,
is if we don't like ourselves,
it pulls us way down.
It pulls us toward darkness.
>>NOORY: Those individuals
who hurt people,
whether they are serial
killers or greedy people,
something's wrong with them.
I don't know if it's part
of the brain or it's part
of these forces that
have changed them.
Is it a combination of the both?
>>KING: I think
it's a combination.
And I think people
set themselves
up by not dealing with
their negative emotions.
They get into
addictive behavior.
You know, addictive behavior
is a band-aid for us.
I tried it all myself
before I had cancer.
When I was young,
I tried drinking,
I tried drugs, I
tried this, anything
I could get my hands
on, to not feel.
And so that's the thing
that really opens us up
to the dark forces.
>>NOORY: Were you that way
when you were a little girl?
I mean, do you remember battling
your parents over everything?
>>KING: Everything.
Yeah, I had a pretty
dark childhood.
>>NOORY: There's that
kind of personality.
I know my daughter, much
like you, same thing.
And then she grew out of it.
Now she's a wonderful
young woman with two kids.
But we had to battle
her every step
of the way over everything.
And she had that kind
of personality, too.
Type A, I call it.
>>KING: Or type A plus.
>>KING: Yeah, A plus.
And it's tough.
There are a lot of people
out there that have this.
These demonic forces
that are out there,
or the so-called evil, why is
it there in the first place?
I mean, yes, I think
there's a balance
in the universe of good and bad.
But why is it there?
>>KING: Well, that's the reason.
Again, for us to be able
to assimilate at a higher
level of consciousness-- that
maybe this is after were' gone,
George, and we're dead.
And we're living on another
plane where everything is one.
Here on Earth, we are able
to see the vast differences
of black and white, and night
and day, and good and evil.
And it allows us to understand
better and improve ourselves.
We're here to improve
ourselves constantly.
Hopefully we're constantly
working on ourselves.
>>NOORY: Are we surrounded
by these dark forces?
>>KING: We are.
We are indeed.
And I never wanted
to focus on them.
I wanted to work with people
and take them to the light.
But in order to do
that, I have to be
able to deal with the dark, too.
>>NOORY: Have you ever
gone into a room, a party,
and you can sense it?
>>KING: Sure.
>>NOORY: You can sense something
out there or an individual?
>>KING: Yeah, and
I bet you have too.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>KING: Yeah.
No, no, we're all
capable of this.
It's built into our bodies.
We have this sense.
We know when we're dealing
with someone who's dark,
or we're in a room
that's dark, or a home.
We need to be careful.
>>NOORY: We talked in our
previous program about how
to combat this, how
to fight it off,
and you had some items
that you showed us,
a lot of them household
items, but they tend to work,
don't they?
>>KING: They do.
And they're not
old wives' tales.
Actually, there are a lot
of things that you can do.
For example, to clear a
house, one of the most common
would be to take Epsom salts
and a little bit alcohol,
and mix the two in
a small container.
Now, be careful with this.
>>NOORY: You have to be.
You don't want to blow
yourself up, right?
>>KING: You don't want
to burn the house down.
And it's possible because
this gets very hot.
>>NOORY: That'll get
rid of everything.
>>KING: Yeah.
You'll want to have
a helper, and you
want to have oven mitts.
And you pour a little
bit of alcohol on
and you light the thing.
And the gas that rises off of
it actually clears a space.
And so you just go around.
You can clear your whole house.
You can clear people.
This is one of the
best ways to clear.
You can also clear
objects with sage.
You can clear people with sage.
It's a little bit harder.
>>NOORY: Do you burn this.
>>KING: You do.
You light it and it has a smoke.
This is a good American
Indian technique.
>>NOORY: Now, where do
you buy-- obviously,
you're not going to buy
this at your supermarket.
>>KING: You buy that at
the health food store.
>>NOORY: OK.
Just like this?
>>KING: Just like that.
And then to put it
out, you just douse it
in a little bit of dirt, or a
little bit of water, or sand.
And then you can reuse it.
>>NOORY: A health food store?
>>KING: Right, yeah.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>KING: It'll be over
there hanging on the wall.
>>NOORY: I didn't know that.
>>KING: Yeah.
It has a great smell.
Smell it.
>>NOORY: Yeah, it is.
>>KING: Isn't that terrific?
>>KING: Yeah.
No, sage is a long-standing
traditional technique
for clearing people,
rooms, objects.
You know, it leaves a residue of
smell of the smoke in the room,
so you don't want to do
this in a hotel room.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Why is there so
much evil out there?
>>KING: Well, that's a
very difficult question.
I think there's more evil today.
I really think that while
man and humankind is ever
increasing, and higher
vibration, and moving
toward the light, I think the
dark tries to defeat that.
And so there appears to
be stronger and, I think,
more evil.
That's my own perception.
>>NOORY: Are we being
bombarded by evil?
>>KING: To a
degree, to a degree.
But there's so many ways
we can stay in the light.
But if you feel like
you're not safe,
I would recommend that you clear
yourself, clear your space.
Now here's another.
This is Rescue Remedy.
It's a flower remedy.
It's available in
any Whole Foods.
You can get this anywhere.
>>NOORY: What do
you do with this?
>>KING: Well, you can spray
it on the room, on yourself.
>>NOORY: Just like that?
>>KING: Yeah.
No, it's a great neutralizer.
It' neutralizes dark energy.
You can also ingest it.
>>NOORY: You can?
>>KING: You can.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>KING: Yeah.
It comes in drops.
This happens to be
spray, because it's
more effective for a room.
>>NOORY: And do you
see instant results?
Or does it take time?
>>KING: Rescue Remedy,
I see instant results.
I'll see your field
change, your energy field.
>>NOORY: Do you see auras?
>>KING: I do.
Now, I'm not big on seeing.
I'll tell you why.
The clairvoyant gift is the most
misleading of all the gifts.
I prefer people use their
gut and their instinct.
It's much more real.
You get far fewer
false readings.
You can get a lot of false
readings with clairvoyance.
You can also get people
who get very proud
about the whole thing.
So I prefer that they
use their, your center.
Your center tells you
what's true and what isn't.
>>NOORY: Tell me
about people, Deborah,
who conjure up dark
forces and evil.
They ask for it.
They pray for it.
And it shows up whether
it's through a Ouija
board or a chant.
They just do.
You know, spells.
>>KING: Wow.
Super dangerous stuff.
That is so dangerous, you know?
>>NOORY: It's like
letting it in, right?
>>KING: Well, yeah.
Ouija boards, and seances,
and things like that
are not playthings.
You need someone with skills
to lead something like that
because you are inviting
spirits to come in
and you can get the
wrong one in the room.
And it or that force can
invade maybe the weakest
person in the group.
>>NOORY: And these forces don't
want to leave either, do they?
>>KING: No, no.
They're often misguided.
Lots of times it's
a soul who's died,
a person who's not
left this realm.
And so what we should be doing
is helping them onto the light.
They're stuck here.
They're stuck in
kind of a gray zone.
>>NOORY: The Catholic
Church, of course,
has a number of priests
dedicated to exorcisms.
I don't know any other organized
religion that has that.
They're darn serious
about this, aren't they?
>>KING: They are.
And they were remarkably
agreeable to allowing
me to learn from them.
They never made me
leave the church.
They would allow me to
come right up to the front.
>>NOORY: Tell me about
that whole experience.
>>KING: That's
quite an experience.
It's very real.
And the books and films
that we have, culturally--
"Rosemary's Baby,"
"The Exorcist"--
the reason we like those is
because they are living out
something we all sense, that is
a cultural experience that we
have on our unconscious.
So the Catholic Church
is quite big on it.
I've also studied
a lot with shamans
in South America who use
very similar procedures.
They just call it
by different names,
but it's all the same energy.
>>NOORY: Deborah,
poltergeist activities,
where they kind of
invade the home,
people can't get rid of them.
What did they do?
Did they do it themselves?
Did they hire experts like you?
And if they do, how do
they find people like you?
>>KING: Well, just
go on the internet.
I bet they're very available.
I would encourage people
to call someone in a field
that they already
feel comfortable in.
For one person it might be
their religious background.
For someone else,
maybe they feel
drawn to an American Indian.
It could be anything.
But there are practitioners
in every culture.
>>NOORY: How do you know
you're getting a good one?
>>KING: Use your intuition.
Again, use your gut.
How do you feel
when they get there?
What's your sense when you
talk to them on the phone?
>>NOORY: When you do
these events or seminars
around the country,
what do people ask for?
What do they want to know?
>>KING: People are looking
for all different things.
Sometimes people
who come and think
they're going to be
getting the light
actually need to be
cleared of the dark.
Sometimes it's the
other way around.
It's always an unforeseen
thing until they actually
walk up to me.
>>NOORY: In some
of these events,
have you come across an episode
that even you went whoa?
One of those kinds of things?
>>KING: All the time.
>>NOORY: What happened?
There's at least one
whoa at every event.
And you just never know.
I'm just thinking back to
an event, a recent event
in Florida, where the gal
started speaking in tongues--
or so it sounded to me at first.
>>NOORY: Gutteral?
>>KING: Yes, it
was very foreign.
And I was sure that it
wasn't of the light.
So speaking in tongues
is usually of the light,
but this felt very,
very dark to me.
And when I saw the
replay on tape later,
I realized I was right.
It was actually a
demonic possession.
It was pretty scary.
>>NOORY: And is this going
on in front of an audience?
>>KING: It was.
>>NOORY: Do they
panic and freak out?
>>KING: They do.
I had three rows run out
of an auditorium one time.
>>NOORY: No.
>>KING: Yeah.
And I'm like, no, no.
Wait, wait.
>>NOORY: Come back!
>>KING: They're coming
after me, not you.
>>NOORY: How about children?
Are they faced with
these kinds of issues?
>>KING: You know, kids can
sense it automatically.
Children are unlike us.
They still know when there's
a spirit in the room.
And they'll say I'm
talking to grandma.
She's here.
And the parents are like,
no, no, she died years ago.
That's your imagination.
But see, children are
more open to other planes.
>>NOORY: Are they
also susceptible
to demonic forces trying
to take over them?
>>KING: They are,
but I think less so.
I see this much more in adults.
Far, far less in children.
>>NOORY: You had earlier,
in our first program,
talked about a spirit
or demonic force
that you saw in your room.
A lot of kids will complain
about somebody in the closet.
They're afraid of
something under the bed.
I know it's kind
of freaky to put
your arm over the side of a bed.
Kind of like feel
someone's going
to reach under and grab
it and stuff like that.
Are they witnessing something?
>>KING: They are.
>>NOORY: When they talk
about, mommy, there's
something in the closet, is
there something in there?
>>KING: They can sense it.
They can sense it.
And so can your dog, your cat,
and if you brought your horse
in the house, he'd be
able to sense it too.
We can all sense these things.
It's just adults have--
out of necessity,
they turn all of
these senses off.
>>NOORY: We've shut it off.
>>KING: Yeah,
we've shut it down.
But it's there.
And in an emergency or a tight
situation, it turns back on.
>>NOORY: Where does this
take us in the future?
Does it get better?
Does it get worse?
In terms of trying to combat
this evil that's out there.
>>KING: I think
we're getting better.
My sense is we're
going up, but we're
clearing the darkness
very quickly now.
I believe that since
about the year 2000,
I've noticed more and
more people really having
amazing spiritual--
what I call initiations.
>>NOORY: Awakenings.
>>KING: Yeah.
And I feel it in my body.
And then they feel it.
And it's just a fact that we
are moving up because the spirit
world senses that we're
in a bit of a crisis.
And so they're
giving more and more
advanced consciousness
to people, giving them
opportunities to step up.
>>NOORY: I find more
people are truly tuned
in and aware of
what is out there.
>>KING: Right.
>>NOORY: These forces
that are out there.
It's not easy.
We are bombarded with horrible
news stories all the time.
Does that affect people?
I mean, do they let
their guard down
when they get depressed and
sad over stuff like that?
>>KING: Absolutely.
And you want to know
what's going on.
It's critical that we know
what's going on in the world
but not take it in over
and over and over again.
Get your news.
Get it in 5 or 10 minutes.
And then don't watch the
same thing all day long.
It really does bring you down.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
You got to be very careful it
doesn't affect you and destroy
you that way.
>>KING: We want to
be all connected
and know what's going
on around the world,
but you don't want to allow
it to pull you into darkness.
>>NOORY: And you are convinced
it can hurt your health.
>>KING: It's happened to me.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>KING: You might have
had this experience, too.
I think most people have.
We have to be careful.
I advise against violence--
violent movies, violent video
games.
It's just not a good idea
to take all that stuff
into your body and into
your own energy field.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
And I think people
take that for granted.
They really do.
Deborah, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>KING: Great being here.
>>NOORY: So if you
ever are confronted
with some kind of evil
force, there are great people
out there like Deborah
King, author, of course,
of one of her books,
"Entangled in Darkness."
You can fight
these evil spirits.
I'm George Noory.
And thank you for
watching "Beyond Belief."